SDLThrust 0.89f-sdl
-------------------

This is a rewrite of Thrust, the classic BBC Micro and Commodore 64 game,
to un*x, Windows and RISC OS.

The object of the game is to lift the Klystron Pod from the bottom
of a cave and return it safely to space. The Pod is very heavy
(compared to the ship) and this makes it tougher than it may seem.

You must be careful not to run out of fuel, crash into the cave
walls, or let the enemy artillary outposts shoot you down.

BACKGOUND STORY
---------------

The resistance is about to launch a major offensive against the Intergalactic
Empire. In preparation for this, they have captured several battle-grade
starships, but they lack the essential power sources for these formidable
craft; Klystron Pods.

You have been commissioned by resistance to steal these pods from the Empire's
storage planets. Each planet is defended by a battery of Limpet Guns,
powered by a Nuclear Power Plant. By firing shots at the power plant,
the guns can be temporarily disabled; the more shots fired at the nuclear
reactor, the longer the guns will take to recharge.

BUT BEWARE!! If you fire too many shots at the reactor, it will become
critical, giving you just ten seconds to clear the plantet before it is
destroyed. If you have not already retrieved the pod stored at the planet,
then you will have failed the mission. If you have retrieved the pod, and you
manage to send the reactor into its critical phase, and leave the planet
safely, you will receive a hefty bonus.

OPTIONS
-------

Command line options:
(on RISC OS modify the Run line in the !Run file)

-h, --help     Print a usage message and exit with a non-zero status.
-v, --version  Print version information on standard output, then exit.
(both of the above options also require the >null and 2>null: lines
 to be removed from the command line on RISC OS).

-d, --nodemo   Do not run the demo which is otherwise displayed
               if the game is left untouched.
-e, --nosoundeffects
               If sound is compiled in, be silent anyway.
-c, --gamma=Value
               Change the brightness of the colors. 1.0 is the default.
               Higher values give brighter colors. The value must be
               positive.
-j, --jump     Only draw every third frame. This makes the game a lot faster.
-2, --double   Double the size of the screen mode used (i.e.640x480) so that
               most modern monitors don't show it in letter box format.
-s, --software Use SDL software screen. Try this if the default Hardware
               screen gives display problems.

CONTROLS
--------

Note that the following keys are the default configuration. This can be
changed by the user by creating a file named .thrustrc in the users home
directory.

A - Turn counterclockwise

S - Turn clockwise

Enter - Fire
   Shoots a bullet. Different targets have different effect:

   The Fuel Tank explodes for 150 points.

   The Limpet guns explode for 750 points.

   The Nuclear Power Plant can take a number of hits. When they are
   destroyed you are given a short period of time to clear out before
   the whole neighbourhood is nuked. If a Power Plant is hit - but
   not destoyed - it will recover after a period of time. During this
   recovery period, the Limpet guns are not able to fire. 2000 extra
   points are scored if the Power Plant is destroyed when the level
   is finished. There is exactly one Power Plant in every level.

   In the more advanced levels you will find other things to shoot at.

.Right-Shift - Thrust
   Gives the ship a forward push at the cost of some fuel.

Spacebar - Pick up and shield.
   If the ship is above a Fuel Tank the ship is refueled, i.e the fuel
   is picked up. Two vertical bars are drawn to indicate that fuel is
   picked up. When there is no more fuel left in the tank, it disappears
   and 300 points are scored.

   If the ship is close to the Klystron Pod a connecting wire is drawn. The
   Pod is picked up when the connecting wire is of the right
   length. If spacebar is released before the correct distance is reached
   the Pod is not picked up.

   When the shield is activated, a circle is drawn around the ship. If
   the ship is carrying the Pod, the Pod and the wire are also
   protected by the shield. The shield costs fuel to power.

ESC/Q - Quit the game

P - Pause
C - Continue a paused game

FILES
-----

The following files are saved in the HOME directory.
(Usually !UnixHome.home).

sdlthrusths - highscore table
thrustrc - keyboard configuration


INSTALLATION/COMPATABILITY
--------------------------

This program is 32 bit compatible and requires RISCOS 3.6+.

The SharedUnixLibrary module is requried and should be merged with
your system modules. It is available from:
http://www.riscos.info/downloads/gccsdk/sharedunixlib/system.zip

Digital Renderer module must be installed for sound support. It is included
in the above system.zip file.

The !UnixHome application must have been seen by the filer.
It is available from:
http://www.riscos.info/unix/downloads/support/UnixHome-1.03.zip

If the game display is incorrect on your screen try adding the
  --software command line option

If the game is too slow try one or more of the following command line
options:
  remove the --double option to use a 320x240 screen.
  add the --jump option to skip frames
  add the --nosoundeffects option to turn off the sound.


AUTHORS
-------

Game by Peter Ekberg peda@lysator.liu.se.

Original man page by Joey Hess joey@kitenet.net.

RISC OS/SDL verison Alan Buckley alan_baa@hotmail.com

Thanks go out to the authors of the original for the C64.


DISTRIBUTION
------------

Thrust may be copied under the term of the Gnu General Public Licence.

Source code for the RISC OS version should have been included with this application. See source/CHANGES for a list of the changes. If you received this via the RISC OS Packaging Project the source code is in the source repositry there.
